Hello this is Carol.
And welcome back to the course I'm tableau in the previous tutorial.
We had a play around of colors and we had a look at three different approaches that we could take to
coloring a bar chart.
And we also discussed that coloring has a lot to do with personal preference because I might find something
appealing but you might not find the same approach appealing and vice versa.
And therefore there is that element of creativity and I do hope that you had a chance to play around
of colors a bit more to kind of understand what you're leaning towards what color palettes you prefer
what styles and approaches to coloring you draw more.
But in any case don't worry because as we progress through this course you will naturally start developing
a unique approach to coloring to formatting and adding labels and creating your own unique visualizations
and developing this unique style of visualization.
And today let's move ahead and talk about labels and formatting.
So we've got this chart in front of us.
And as we discussed there is a very high likelihood that this chart might be featured in the report
or be posted somewhere on the wall.
So we want to make it look very chic and just very very appealing to the eye.
But that is not the only thing we're pursuing today.
There is one more thing that we are after and it might be it is definitely as important as making the
chart look awesome and that is ease of understanding.
Let me demonstrate with an example what I mean.
So here on this chart we definitely have all the information that we need.
We've got the names of the people we've got the regions that they're working in.
We even have the total values of sales that they've performed.
And so the bars have this access and you can by looking at the bar sell how much approximately each
person has made in sales.
So let's see what happens if for instance I ask somebody to tell me how much sales has built.
The person has to find Bill.
So I look around and we find Bill here.
Then the person has to move their eyes up to the top of the chart and then the person has to.
Don't worry about this pop up on the right here.
It's it's just in tableau.
So when you do produce this report you won't have this pop up window.
So once again the person has to find where Bill is moved their eyes to the top of the bar and then move
their eyes to the left to understand where the total sales sit.
And here they sit about at about maybe 1000 between 1500 and 2000 so maybe this in or around 1000 750
or one thousand eight hundred.
That's another one that's let's see how many sales James made.
So once again we find James we move our eyes to the top then we move our eyes to the left here and we
can see that James is somewhere between 1000 and 1500 but because he's further away from the Axis there's
a bit more room for error so maybe he's with with this eye movement maybe sitting at 1600 or 1700.
You can't really tell.
And so that means that the person who's reading this chart has to put in some efforts to get the information
out of it and that's not the way it should be.
Tableau is a tool that allows you to very easily create visualizations but also it has the capacity
to make those business patients to be very very easy to understand and that is an art form on its own.
That is a part of what data scientists do we look for ways to communicate information in very simple
forms so that people don't have to put an effort to understand it and extract information visually from
what we are presenting them.
So let's try fix that.
What can we do.
Let's try adding a label.
So here you can see this button over here label and what that does.
It adds textual information to the chart.
And what we're going to add is we're actually going to take the sum of total sales we're going to press
hold it press control and drag it onto label.
And as you can see here now the actual sum of total sales has appeared on the bar chart.
Oh actually James was between 1000 1500.
So that's definitely not 1600.
There you go.
Now we can actually see the exact number of sell that each of these people has made and that already
makes analysis or reading this chart much much easier.
Now while we're on the topic of labels we can add more information to labels so let's say we want to
add representative to drag him into label.
Now we have the name there as well.
We can also drag region but that's a bit excessive because we already have the representative name here
and we've got the region name here.
And moreover the region is the same for all these blue bars the same for Orange and so that's that is
definitely excessive.
And we're just going to remove those now.
So we'll take region out and representative.
And now we're left with the total value of sales.
Now you can edit the label further if you go into label and then you click this.
Dot dot dot button here.
You can add your own text if you like.
So you can say sales column.
OK.
And so here you can see that your text has appeared in label.
Also you can see that this labels not displaying any text because it is too big it would overlap this
label and you can fix that by right clicking and saying Mark label always show.
And that way it's always going to be displayed.
So now we're going to go back to label go to the dot dot dot.
We're going to take out the sales text and we're going to click OK so what we want to do now is we want
to fix up the formatting of our chart and that is probably the last step to getting our chart to the
ready for production level.
So let's start with the labels.
If you want to change the size of the labels you just go into label over here and you select size and
you select desire size that suits you.
So it's go of 12 and maybe you want to make them bold that looks pretty good.
Also if you go into dot dot dot you can do the same here.
So twelve and label size also you can change the color.
You can do a lot of things we will keep it a black vinyl so that's good.
That part's done.
Another thing that we want to do is we want to change the type of label and I'll explain what I mean.
Now in a second so we'll just right click on the labels here.
And so this is where you normally go to format things.
Labels have their own formatting over here but all other things in tableau have formatting through this
right click format button which is pretty much the same as going here and selecting font or other things
like alignment and so on.
So here in when you're right click and you go to format once again here you can change the articles
that again.
So right click format.
So this is the access you you've got to be careful here.
You've got to go to the pain because the label is in the paint not on the axis.
And here you can change the type of labels.
So just to prove that this is label if I change this direction you will see that the label is changing
its direction.
Once again you can do the same thing from here.
You can change the alignment like that what you can do from this from here is the type of label and
the type of numerical label that we're using in this case we're using numbers.
So let's go ahead and change that to currency.
Let's say we want dollars.
So we'll go to currency custom as you can see is automatically moved because it's not fitting.
But we'll take out two decimal points.
And now you can see that this is much more appealing it's got the dollar sign in it and now also let's
say we want in units of thousands.
So let's say K and we'll add one decimal point back.
So that's even better.
So now we can see approximately how much cell these persons made.
It's very very easy to digest there's no numbers that you know that are unnecessary.
One thing you should be aware of is you can't really change the font size through this menu.
Here you see I'm trying to change the font size but it's not changing.
And that's that's something just like a feature of tableau that hasn't been looked at.
That's because the label font size actually overrides the font size that you see here.
So be careful that OK.
So we've formatted the label.
Now what else we're going to do is we're going to format the axis.
So we're going to right click on the axis once again format.
We're going to go to axis here and we're going to change this to 12.
So kind of it's best to keep the size consistent throughout.
Then we'll go to this axis.
We'll also click format and we'll change this to 12.
You can see that Matthew is not fitting in.
So maybe make this a little bit bigger.
Now Matthew fits in as well format this axis changes to 12.
This is actually unnecessary because we know that central means region and we know that these people
are representative.
So we'll just right click and we will hide fuel labels and total sales one more thing.
So here we will right click edit access.
We will split total sales by the two words because that looks better.
And also one more thing in if we edit access or not.
Edit Sorry we reformat the access and we go to access here what we want to do is we want to make sure
that these are also dollars so currency get rid of that make it k and there we go.
So now it's it's consistent you've got KS here also you.
It would be better to probably put one decimal place back because there is one decimal place throughout
the chart and that's how we form our charts in the next material we will look at how do we how we can
export this chart into other documents and eloquent seeing next.
Until then happy it.